---
title: "Chemotaxis trial 3 bar graph"
output:
  word_document: default
  html_document:
    df_print: paged
  pdf_document: default
---
Chemotaxis Trial 3 - 12/12/19

## Testing 4 strains for chemotaxis to 1% Isoamyl alcohol

### Strains tested:
* N2
* JT204 daf-12
* JT6924 daf-19; daf-12
* CB1124 che-3

### Also testing the use of 0.01% Triton X-100 in S-Basal to decrease worms sticking inside pipet tips.  And used H20 to dilute Isoamyl alcohol and 0.5M Sodium azide instead of EtOH.
```{r}
library(tidyverse)

```
### Load the dataset.  Data should be arranged in columns with simple one word title at the top of the column.  Upload in lower right window.  Import dataset in upper right window. Then read into R Notebook.
```{r}
read_excel("chem3.xls")
```
### Calculate means for the different strains.
```{r}
CI<-as_tibble(chem3)

CI
```
```{r}
meanCI<-CI %>% group_by(strain) %>% summarise(avg=mean(CI))

meanCI
```
### Now make a barplot using ggplot
```{r}
ggplot(data=meanCI, mapping=aes(x=strain, y=avg))+geom_bar(stat="identity")
```
# Improve the bargraph with title and labels and pick a theme
```{r}
ggplot(data=meanCI, mapping=aes(x=strain, y=avg))+geom_bar(stat="identity")+labs(title="Chemotaxis index of C. elegans strains to 1% Isoamyl alcohol after 1 hour", x="C elegans strain", y="Chemotaxis Index", fill = "Strain") + theme_minimal()
```
### Calculate the statistics for data
```{r}
library(dplyr)

chem3_summary<- chem3 %>% # the names of the new data frame and the data frame to be summarised
  group_by(strain) %>%   # the grouping variable
  summarise(mean_CI = mean(CI),  # calculates the mean of each group
            sd_CI = sd(CI), # calculates the standard deviation of each group
            n_CI = n(),  # calculates the sample size per group
            SE_CI = sd(CI)/sqrt(n())) # calculates the standard error of each group
chem3_summary
```


### Plot a bar graph with SEM used for error bars

```{r}
CIPlot <- ggplot(chem3_summary, aes(strain, mean_CI)) + 
                   geom_col() +  
                   geom_errorbar(aes(ymin = mean_CI - SE_CI, ymax = mean_CI + SE_CI), width=0.2)

CIPlot + labs(title="Chemotaxis index of C. elegans strains to 1% Isoamyl alcohol after 1 hour",y="Chemotaxis Index (SEM)", x = "Strain") + theme_minimal()
```
### Save the plot
```{r}
ggsave("plot.png", height=5, width=8)


```